Package deprecation docs page (#1699)
NuGet/docs.microsoft.com-nuget: docs/nuget-org/Deprecate-packages.md

---
title: Deprecating packages on nuget.org
description: Detailed description on the process of deprecating packages and how the clients shows this information
author: anangaur
ms.author: anangaur
ms.date: 09/23/2019
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.reviewer: karann-msft
---

# Deprecating packages

> As a package publisher, if you no longer want to maintain a package or would like to move your package consumers to move to another package due to various reasons, deprecate your package. Package deprecation is different than `unlisting` your package as explained below:

Reviewer: "or would like to **encourage** your package consumers to move to another package"

---
title: Deprecating packages on nuget.org
description: Detailed description on the process of deprecating packages and how the clients shows this information
author: anangaur
ms.author: anangaur
ms.date: 09/23/2019
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.reviewer: karann-msft
---

# Deprecating packages

> As a package publisher, if you no longer want to maintain a package or would like to encourage your package's consumers to move to another package for various reasons, you can now deprecate the package. 

Reviewer 2: What do you think of something like this?

```suggestion
You can deprecate a package if you no longer maintain a package or if would like to encourage your package's consumers to move to another package. 
```

Package deprecation is different than **unlisting** your package as explained below:

> * **Unlisting** a package prevents its discovery as its hidden in search results. Hence it prevents new installs of the package.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Unlisting** a package prevents its discovery because it is hidden in search results. This prevents new installs of the package.
```

> * **Unlisting** a package prevents its discovery because it is hidden in search results. This prevents new installs of the package.

Reviewer 4: > This prevents new installs of the package.

I don't know if I'd keep that. I don't want it to suggest that there's no way to install that specific version of the package.

Reviewer 2: I agree. I think this bullet point would be better without the last sentence

> * **Deprecating** a package lets your package's existing consumers find out if they have it installed or used in their projects. It also lets them know the reason and alternate recommended package as specified by you (the package publisher). 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Deprecating** a package lets your package's existing consumers find out if they have it installed or used in their projects. It also lets them know the reason for deprecation and an alternate recommended package as specified by you (the package publisher). 
```

> * **Deprecating** a package lets your package's existing consumers find out if they have it installed or used in their projects. It also lets them know the reason for deprecation and an alternate recommended package as specified by you (the package publisher). 

Reviewer 5: I would explicitly state here that deprecated packages can still be found in search results. Otherwise it's unclear. I would also mention that unlisted packages can also be deprecated, and that authors may want to both deprecate and unlist their packages.

## Deprecation workflow

> 1. To deprecate a package, go to `Manage packages` and select `Deprecation`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. To deprecate a package, go to **Manage packages** and select **Deprecation**:
```

    ![Go to deprecate package option](media/deprecation-select-option.png)

> 2. Select the version you would like to deprecate. If you want to deprecate all version, choose `Select all versions` option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Select the version you would like to deprecate. If you want to deprecate all version, choose **Select all versions** option.
```

    ![Select package versions to deprecate](media/deprecation-select-version.png)

> 3. Choose a reason for deprecation. If the package is no longer maintained, choose `Legacy` option. If a specific version has a critical bug, choose the second option. For any other reason, select `Other`. You can always specify an alternate recommended package (and version) and a custom message to the owners. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Choose a reason for deprecation. If the package is no longer maintained, choose **Legacy** option. If a specific version has a critical bug, choose the second option. For any other reason, select **Other**. You can always specify an alternate recommended package (and version) and a custom message to the owners. 
```

> 3. Choose a reason for deprecation. If the package is no longer maintained, choose **Legacy** option. If a specific version has a critical bug, choose the second option. For any other reason, select **Other**. You can always specify an alternate recommended package (and version) and a custom message to the owners. 

Reviewer 5: `choose Legacy` -> `choose the Legacy`.
`If a specific` -> `If the specific`
`choose the second option` -> `choose the Has Critical Bugs option`

    ![Select reasons alternate package recommendation and custom message](media/deprecation-save.png)

> [!Note]

> > Custom message is only shown on nuget.org but not from the clients.

Reviewer 5: `The custom message is only shown on nuget.org. Currently, nuget clients such as nuget.exe and the Package Manager UI do not show the custom message.`

## Client experience for deprecated packages

> Once a package has been deprecated, it's consumers get to know about it in following ways (depending upon the client used).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once a package has been deprecated, its consumers get to know about it in following ways (depending upon the client used).
```

> Once a package has been deprecated, its consumers get to know about it in following ways (depending upon the client used).

Reviewer 5: `get to know about it in following` -> `are notified about it in the following`

### Visual Studio 

> *Available on Visual Studio 2019 version 16.3+*

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
*Available starting in Visual Studio 2019 version 16.3+*
```

> Visual Studio warns about a deprecated package's usage on the `Installed` tab. It will lead you to the package and the deprecation information (reason and an alternate package recommendation, if present)

Reviewer 5: `It will lead you to the package and its deprecation information (including the reason it was deprecated and the alternate package to use instead, if present).`
